[0:08] Chris Wallace: Good evening from the health education campus of Case, Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic. I'm Chris Wallace of Fox News and I welcome you to the first of the 2020 presidential debates between President Donald J. Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden. This debate is sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates. The commission has designed the format six roughly 15 minute segments, with two minute answers from each candidate to the first question, then open discussion for the rest of each segment. Both campaigns have agreed to these rules. For the record, I decided the topics and the questions in each topic, I can assure you none of the questions has been shared with the commission were the two candidates. This debate is being conducted under health and safety protocols designed by the Cleveland Clinic, which is serving as the health security adviser to the commission for all four debates. Out of precaution, both campaigns have agreed the candidates will not shake hands. At the beginning of tonight's debate, the audience here in the hall has promised to remain silent. No cheers, no booze or other interruptions. So we and more importantly, you can focus on what the candidates have to say. No noise. Except right now as we welcome the Republican nominee, President Trump and the Democratic nominee, Vice President Biden.
[1:43] Joe Biden: Okay. How do you know, man? How are you? And well,
[1:60] Chris Wallace: gentlemen Ah, lot of people have been waiting for this night, so let's get going. Our first subject is the Supreme Court President Trump. You nominated Amy Coney Barrett over the weekend to succeed the late Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the court. You say the Constitution is clear about your obligation and the Senate's to consider a nominated the court Vice President Biden, you say that this is an effort by the president and Republicans to jam through an appointment and what you call an abuse of power. My first question to both of you tonight. Why are you right in the argument you make and your opponent wrong? And where do you think a justice Barrett would take the court? President Trump, in this first segment, you go first. Two minutes.
[2:50] Donald Trump: Thank you very much, Chris. I will tell you very simply we won the election. Elections have consequences. We have the Senate. We have the White House and we have a phenomenal nominee respected by all. Top top academic, good in every way, good in every way. In fact, some of her biggest endorsers are very liberal people from Notre Dame and other places. So I think she's going to be fantastic. We have plenty of time, even if we did it after the election itself. I have a lot of time after the election, as you know, So I think that she will be outstanding. She's going to be as good as anybody that has served on that court. We really feel that we have a professor. Notre Dame, highly respected by all, said she is the single greatest student he's ever had. He's been a professor for a long time in a great school, and we just we won the election and therefore we have the right to choose her, and very few people knowingly would say otherwise. And by the way, the Democrats, they wouldn't even think about not doing it if they had. The only difference is there. Try and do it faster. There's no way they would give it up. They had merit garland, but the problem is they didn't have the elections, so they were stopped, and probably that would happen in reverse. Also definitely would happen. Reverse. So we won the election, and we have the right to do it. Chris.
[4:11] Chris Wallace: President Trump. Thank you. Uh, same question to you, Vice President Biden. You have two minutes.
[4:17] Joe Biden: Well, first of all, um, thank you for doing this and looking forward to this Mr. President, I American people have a right to have a say in who the Supreme Court nominee is that say occurs when they vote for a United States senators. And when they vote for the president, United States, they're not going to get that chance now because we're in the middle of an election already, election has already started. Tens of thousands of people have already voted. And so the thing that should happen is we should wait. We should wait and see what the outcome of this election is because that's the only way the American people get to express their view is by who they elect as president, who they elect as vice president. Now, what's at stake here? The president made it clear he wants to get rid of the Affordable care act he's been running on that he ran on that and he's been governing on that. He's in the Supreme Court right now, trying to get rid of three, the Affordable Care Act, which will strip 20 million people from having insurance health insurance. Now, if they goes into court and and the justice and I have nothing. I'm not opposed to the justices, but she seems like a very fine person. But she's written before she went in the bench, which is her right, that she thinks that the Affordable Care Act is not constitutional. The other thing is on the court and it struck down what happens. Women's rights are fundamentally changed. Once again, a woman could be helped make more money because she has a pre existing condition of pregnancy. Were ableto they're able to charge woman MAWR for the same exact procedure remanded gets. And that ended when we in fact passed the Affordable Care Act and there's 100 million people have pre existing conditions and they'll be taken away as well those preexisting conditions. The insurance companies are gonna love this and so it's just not appropriate to do this before this election. If he wins the election and the Senators, Democrat, a Republican. Then he goes forward. If not, we should wait until February. There
[6:22] Donald Trump: aren't 100 million people with preexisting conditions as Faras, the say is concerned that people already had their say. They okay, Justice Ginsburg said. Very powerfully, very strongly at some point 10 years ago or so she said. A president and the Senate is elected for a period of time, but the president's elected for four years, were not elected for three years. I'm not elected for three years. So we have the Senate. We have a president elected during that period of time. During that period of time, we have an opening. I'm not elected for three years. I'm elected for four years and 100 million people. Joe, the 100 million people is totally wrong. I don't know where you got that number. The bigger problem that you have is that you're going to extinguish 180 million people. Were there private health care that they're very simply not true? Well, you're going to socialist. I'm going to social. This
[7:16] Chris Wallace: is we're now in the gentlemen, we're now in the open discussion. Discussion? Discussion? Yes, I agree. Go ahead. Vice Prez
[7:22] Joe Biden: number one Uh, he he knows that what I proposed What I propose is that we expand obamacare and we increase it. We do not wipe any. And one of the big debates we had with 23 of my colleagues trying to win the nomination that I won were saying that Biden wanted to allow people to have private insurance. Still, they can. They do. They will, under my proposal.
[7:47] Donald Trump: That what you said, What party has said? It's simply party doesn't say your party wants to go socialist Party is socialist right now. I am going to dominate you, Joe. You know that I am the
[7:58] Joe Biden: Democratic Party right now, the platform of the Democratic Party is what I in fact, approved off what I approved off. Now here's the deal. The deal is that is gonna wipe out pre existing condition. By the way, the 2200 million 200,000 people that have died on his watch there How many of those have survived? There's seven million people that contracted covert. What does it mean for them going forward? If you strike down the Affordable care act,
[8:27] Donald Trump: you've had 308,000 military people dying because you couldn't provide them proper health care in the military. So don't tell me about happy to talk about. And if you were here, you would be 200. It would be two million people because you were very late on the draw. You didn't want me to ban China, which was heavily infected. You didn't want me to, Ben. Alright Europe, which was heavily if you would have been much later. Just later. Talking about two million people.
[8:54] Chris Wallace: President, A moderator. We're gonna talk about covert in the next segment, but well ahead,
[8:59] Joe Biden: let me finish. The point is that the president also is opposed to Roe v. Wade. That's on the ballot as well and the court in the court. And so that's also a stake right now. And so the election is all
[9:13] Donald Trump: you don't know. It's on the ballot. Why is it in the ballot? Because because that's not on the ballot. It's on the ballot, in the court, in the court. There's nothing happening there, Donald. You don't know her view on Roe v. Wade. I don't interview
[9:29] Chris Wallace: Well, all right, let's all right, let's talk. I would we got a lot to unpack here, gentlemen. We got a lot of times so on health care on. But then we'll come back to Roe v. Wade. Alright, Mr. President, The Supreme Court will hear a case a week after the election in which the Trump administration, along with 18 state attorneys general, are seeking to overturn right Obama Care to end Obama care? You have spent the last because they want to give if I may ask that question, sir. Good health care. Over the last four years, you have promised to repeal and replace Obama care. But you have never in these four years come up with a plan, a comprehensive plan to replace Obama care. Well, I got rid
[10:15] Donald Trump: of the individual mandate. Excuse me. I got rid of the individual mandate, which was a big joke about because that is absolutely a big thing. That was the worst part
[10:23] Chris Wallace: of Obamacare, Chris. That was the worst part of Obama. Well, I'll ask Joe. The
[10:28] Donald Trump: individual mandate was the most unpopular aspect of Obamacare. I got rid of
[10:33] Chris Wallace: it and we will protect people that are the moderator of this debate. And I would like you to let me ask my question. And then you can answer your Hedren. You, in the course of these four years have never come up with a comprehensive plan to replace Obama care. And just this Last Thursday, you signed a largely symbolic executive order to protect people with preexisting conditions five days before this debate. So my question, sir, is What is the Trump Healthcare plan?
[11:04] Donald Trump: Well, first of all, I guess I'm debating you, not him. But that's okay. I'm not surprised. Let me just tell you something that there's nothing symbolic. I'm cutting drug prices. I'm going with favorite nations, which no president has the courage to do because you're going against big farmer. Drug prices will be coming down 80 or 90%. You could have done it during your 47 year period in government. But you didn't do it. Nobody's done it. So we're cutting health care. All of the things that we've done Insulin given example insulin. It's going to It was destroying families, destroying people. The cost. I'm getting it for so cheap. It's like water. You want to know the truth so cheap. Take a look at all of the drugs that what we're doing. Prescription drug prices were going to allow our governors now to go to other countries to buy drugs, because when they pay just a tiny fraction,
[11:51] Chris Wallace: this is open discussion.
[11:52] Donald Trump: I think this is big stuff.
[11:55] Chris Wallace: You'll be happy. I'm about to pick up on one of your points toe. Ask the vice president, which is he points out, that you would like to add a public option to Obamacare, and the argument that he makes another Republicans make is that that is going toe end private insurance and well, if I start asking the question, it will end, Party says. But it will end private insurance and create a government takeover of health.
[12:21] Joe Biden: It does not. It's only for those people who are so poor they qualify for Medicaid. They can get that free. In most states except governors who want to deny people are poor Medicaid, anyone who qualifies for Medicare would excuse me. Medicaid would automatically be enrolled in the public option. The vast majority of the American people would still not be in that option. Number one.
[12:46] Donald Trump: Show you a membership with Bernie Sanders, far left on the manifesto. You man, you socialized medicine. Look. Hey, are you still not gonna listen
[12:55] Joe Biden: to them? The fact of the matter is, I beat Bernie Sanders. Not by much beating the whole have a lot. I'm
[13:00] Donald Trump: here. I'm here standing facing. You would have left two days early. You would have lost every problem. He knows how thio you look. Here's the deal.
[13:09] Joe Biden: I got very lucky. And I get very lucky tonight as well. And tonight I'm gonna make sure, because here's the deal. Here's the deal. The fact is that everything he's saying so far, it's simply a lie. I'm not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he's a liar.
[13:22] Donald Trump: But I just wanna I wanna
[13:26] Joe Biden: make sure e I wanna make sure.
[13:31] Chris Wallace: Can you let him finish?
[13:32] Joe Biden: Hey, don't know how to do that. He has, You know, you picked be suppressed long guy. The wrong night at the wrong
[13:39] Donald Trump: time. You agreed with Sanders said the whole idea that you
[13:43] Joe Biden: there is no manifesto number Number two just lost the left. Number two Uh,
[13:49] Donald Trump: you just lost the left. You agreed with Bernie Sanders on a plan, folks. Absolutely folks, Germany idea what I'm doing. You have socialized medicine
[14:02] Joe Biden: Mr President, tell you what he is not for any help for people needing health care because his because he in fact, already has cost 10 million people their health care that they had from their employers because of his recession. Number one. Number two There are 20 million people getting healthcare through obamacare. Now that he wants to take it away, he
[14:25] Donald Trump: won't ever looking eye and say that's what he wants to dio take it away. I want to give number that health care at a much lower price because he doesn't know how he doesn't know how to do that fixed. He has never offered a fix it to an extent he has never cared a you might know, but probably does Obama. You realize
[14:43] Chris Wallace: you're speaking at the same time. It's still let the president
[14:47] Donald Trump: Obama care is no good. We made it better, and I had a choice to make very early, and we took away the individual mandate. We guarantee preexisting conditions but took away the individual mandate. Listen, this is the way it is, and that destroyed that they shouldn't even call it Obama care. Then I had a choice to make do I let my people run it really well, were badly. If I run it badly, they'll probably blame him, but they'll blame me. But more importantly, I wanna help people. Okay, I said, You've got to run it so well, that's and I just had a meeting with them. They said The problem is, no matter how well you run Obama care, it's a disaster. It's too expensive. Premiums are too high that it doesn't work that way. We want to get rid of.
[15:30] Chris Wallace: I understand it, But I have to. I have to give you roughly equal time. Please let the vice president talking.
[15:36] Joe Biden: He has no plan for health care. Course we sends, please. He sends out wishful thinking. He has executive orders, have no power. He hasn't lower drug costs for anybody. Has been promising a health care plan since he got elected. He has none. Like almost everything else he talks about, He does not have a plan, He doesn't have a plan. And the fact is, this man doesn't know what he's talking about.
[16:02] Chris Wallace: I have one final question for you. Uh, Mr Vice President, if Senate Republicans, we were talking originally about the Supreme court here if Senate Republicans go ahead and confirm Justice Barrett. Uh, there has been talk about ending the filibuster or even packing the court, adding to the nine justices there. You call this a distraction by the president. But in fact, it wasn't brought up by the president. It was brought up by some of your Democratic colleagues in understanding the Congress. So my question to you is you have refused in the past to talk about it. Are you willing to tell the American people tonight whether or not you will support either ending the filibuster or packing the whatever
[16:43] Joe Biden: position I taken that that will become the issue? The issue is the American people should speak. You should go out and vote. You're in voting now. Vote and let your senators know how strongly you feel. Let vote now, make sure you in fact, let people know where Senators. I'm not going to answer the
[17:01] Donald Trump: question because because the question is, the question is, is radical left? Would you shut up, man? Who is on your list? Joe, This who's on your gentlemen?
[17:12] Chris Wallace: I think way have ended this segment. We're gonna move on to the second segment
[17:19] Joe Biden: that was really productive. Segment wasn't Keep yapping, man.
[17:23] Donald Trump: The people understand, Joe. 47 years, you've done nothing. They
[17:27] Chris Wallace: understand, All right. The second subject is covert 19 which is an awfully serious subject, So let's try to be serious about it. We have had more than seven million cases of coronavirus in the United States, and more than 200,000 people have died even after we produce a vaccine. Experts say that it could be months or even years before we come back toe anything approaching normal. My question for both of you is based on what you have said and done so far. And what you have said you would do starting in 2021. Why should the American people trust you more than your opponent to deal with this public health crisis going forward? In this case, the question goes to you first, sir. Two minutes uninterrupted.
[18:21] Joe Biden: Good luck. 200,000 dead. As you said. Over seven million infected in the United States. We in fact have 5% of war, 4% of the world's population. 20% of the deaths 40,000 people a day are contracting Covic. In addition, to that About between 7. 50 and 1000 people. They're dying. When he was presented with that number, he said, It is what it iss Well, it is what it is because you are who you are. That's why it iss The president has no plan. He hasn't laid out anything. He knew all the way back in February. How serious this crisis Waas. He knew it was a deadly disease. What did he do? He's on tape, is acknowledging you knew it? He said he didn't tell us or give people a warning of it because he didn't want to panic the American people. You don't panic. He panicked. In addition to that, what did he do? He went in and we were insisting that the Chinese, the people we had on the ground and China should be able to go toe Wuhan and determine for themselves how dangerous this Waas. He did not even ask she to do that. He told us what a great job she was doing. He said we owe him a debt of gratitude for being so transparent with us. And what did he do then? He then did nothing. He waited and waited and waited. He still doesn't have a plan. I laid out back in March exactly what we should be doing, and I laid out again in July what we should be doing. We should be providing all the protective gear past. We should be providing the money the House has passed in order to be able to go out and get people the help they need to keep their businesses open. Open schools that cost a lot of money. You should get out of your bunker and get out of the sand trap and get in your golf course and go in the Oval Office and bring together the Democrats Republicans and fund what needs to be done now to save lives.
[20:18] Donald Trump: So if we would have listened to you two minutes, sir, if we would have listened to you, the country would have been left wide open. Millions of people would have died, not 200,000, and one person is too much its China's fault. It should have never happened. They stopped it from going in, but it was China's fault. And by the way, when you talk about numbers, you don't know how many people died in China. You don't know how many people died in Russia. You don't know how many people died in India. They don't exactly give you a straight count, just so you understand. But if you look at what we've done, I closed it. And you said he xenophobic. He's a racist and he xenophobic because you didn't think I should have closed our country. Wait a minute. You didn't think we should have closed our country because you thought it was, too. It was terrible. You wouldn't have closed it for another two months by my doing it early. In fact, Dr Fauci said, President Trump saved thousands of lives. Many of your Democrat governor said President Trump did a phenomenal job. We worked with Governor. Really? Go take a look at the governor said I did a phenomenal job. Most of them said that in fact, people that would not be necessarily on my side said that President Trump did a phenomenal job. We did. We got the gowns, we got the masks, we made the ventilators. You wouldn't have made ventilators. And now we're weeks away from a vaccine. We're doing therapeutics already. Fewer people are dying when they get sick. Far fewer people are dying. We've done a great job. The only thing I haven't done a good job, And that's because of the fake news. No matter what you say to them, they give you a bad press on. It's just fake news. They give you good press. They give me bad press because that's the way it is, unfortunately. But let me just tell you something. I don't care. I've gotten used to it. But I'll tell you, Joe, you could never have done the job that we did. You don't have it in your blood. You could have never done that job.
[22:03] Joe Biden: I know how to do the job. I know how to get the job.
[22:06] Donald Trump: You didn't do very well in swine flu. H one n one. You were a disaster. Your own 14,014
[22:13] Joe Biden: 1000 people died, not 200,000. There was
[22:16] Donald Trump: very economic recession. A. There was no you
[22:20] Chris Wallace: made a point and
[22:21] Joe Biden: there was no one. There is no we didn't shut down the economy. This is his economy. That's being he shut down. The reason it shut down is because, look, you folks at home, how many you got up this morning and had an empty chair at the kitchen table because someone died of covert. How many of you are in a situation where you lost your mom or dad and you couldn't even speak to them? You had a nurse holding a phone up so you could in fact, say goodbye.
[22:46] Donald Trump: How many people, far more people. And by the way, your own his own. His own CDC
[22:53] Joe Biden: director says we could lose as many as another 200 0 people between now and the end of the year. And he held him. He said, If we just wear a mask, we can save half those numbers. Just just a mask. And by the way, in terms of the the whole notion of a vaccine, we're for a vaccine, but we don't trust him at all. Nor do you. I know you don't. What we trust is a scientist trust way.
[23:18] Chris Wallace: Let me let me move on to questions about the future because you both have touched on one of the two of the questions I'm gonna ask, focusing on the future first President Trump, you have repeatedly either contradicted or been at odds with some of your governments on top scientists the week before last, the head of the Centers for Disease Control, Dr Redfield, said it would be summer before the vaccine would become generally available to the public. You said that he was confused and miss taken. Those were your two words. But Dr Slowly, the head of your operation warp speed, has said exactly the same thing. Are they both wrong?
[23:57] Donald Trump: Well, I've spoken to the companies, and we can have it a lot sooner. It's a very political thing because people like this would rather make it political than save lives. It is a very political thing I've spoken to. Pfizer have spoken to all of the people that you have to speak to. We have great Moderna, Johnson and Johnson and others. They could go faster than that by a lot, become very political because the left or I don't know
[24:21] Chris Wallace: if you're just I don't know what the head of your operation works feed doctors.
[24:24] Donald Trump: I disagree with him. No, I disagree with him and he didn't say that. He said it could be there, but it could also be much. I had him in my office. Two days.
[24:32] Chris Wallace: He talked about the summer, sir, before it's generally available,
[24:35] Donald Trump: she said It's a possibility that will have the answer before November 1st. It could also be after that. Well, we're going to deliver it right away. We have the military all set up logistically. They're all set up. We have our military that deliver soldiers and they could do 200,000 day. They're going to be disagree. Same man. It's all set up
[24:56] Joe Biden: by Easter. This would be gone away by the warm weather. It be gone miraculous, like a miracle. And by the way, maybe you could inject some bleach in your arm and that would take care of it. This
[25:06] Donald Trump: is the same s. You know that. I s So
[25:10] Joe Biden: here's the deal. This man is talking about a vaccine. Every serious. Every serious company is talking about maybe having a vaccine done by the end of the year. But the distribution of that vaccine will not occur until sometime beginning of the middle of next year to get it out. If we get the vaccine and pray God, we will. Mr.
[25:31] Chris Wallace: Vice President. Wanna pick up the e Wanna pick up on this question, though you say the public contrast the scientists, but they can't trust President Trump. In fact, you said that again tonight. Your running mate, Senator Harris, goes further, saying the public health experts quote will be muzzled will be suppressed, given the fact that polls already show that people are concerned about the vaccine and are reluctant to take it. Are you and your running mate Senator Harris contributing to that fear?
[26:00] Joe Biden: No more than the question you just asked him, You pointed out, he puts pressure and disagrees with his own scientist.
[26:08] Chris Wallace: Everybody, Senator Harrison, you can't trust the sun. Well,
[26:11] Joe Biden: no, no, you can't trust the scientist, he said. She didn't say that. You can't,
[26:15] Chris Wallace: she said. The public health experts quote will be muzzled. Will
[26:18] Joe Biden: be. Well, that's what he's going to try to do. But there's millions of science. There's thousands of scientists out there, like here in this great hospital that don't work for him. They're job done, depend on him that's not there, the people there and
[26:33] Donald Trump: by the way, to the scientists that are in charge of the way they will have the vaccine very soon.
[26:37] Joe Biden: You believe for a moment what he's telling you in light of all the lies he's told you about the whole issue relating to Covert. He still hasn't even acknowledged that he knew this was happening. Knew how dangerous is gonna be back in February. And he didn't even tell you. He's on record as saying it. He panicked or he just looked at the stock market. One of the two. Because guess what? A lot of people die and a lot more going to die unless he gets a lot smarter. A lot
[27:09] Donald Trump: quicker. Mr. President, did you use the word smart? Eso You said you went to Delaware State, But you forgot the name of your college. You didn't go to Delaware State. You graduated either the lowest or almost the lowest in your class. Don't ever use the word smart with may. Don't ever use that word. Because you know what? There's nothing smart about you, Joe. 47 years you've done that, you would have had Let me just tell you something, Joe. If you would have had the charge of what I was put through, I had to close the greatest economy in the history of our country and by the way. Now it's being built again. It's
[27:44] Chris Wallace: going up to the economy in the next segment, sir. Okay, it's going up fast. Okay, When it comes to how the virus has been handled so far, the two of you have taken very different approaches. And this is going to affect how the virus is handled going forward by whichever of you ends up becoming the next president. I want to quickly go through several of those re openings. Vice President Biden, You have been much more reluctant than President Trump about reopening the economy and schools. Why, sir?
[28:14] Joe Biden: Because you don't have a plan. If I were running, I know how what the plan is. You've got to provide these businesses the ability to have the money to be able to reopen with the PPE as well as with the sanitation they need. You have to provide a Nancy Pelosi. Well, he's just just for a minute fellatio. And by the way, Nancy Pelosi and Schumer, they have a plan. He won't even meet with him. The Republicans won't meet with Senate. Hey, sits He sits in his golf course and I
[28:45] Donald Trump: mean literally think about it. You probably played more than I do. Jim,
[28:48] Chris Wallace: what about this question of re openings? And
[28:51] Donald Trump: hey, wants to shut down this country and I want to keep it open. And we didn't wait a minute. Let me shut you down for a second, Joe, just for one second. We want toe. He wants to shut down the country. We just went through it. We had to because we didn't know anything about the disease. Now we found that elderly people with heart problems and diabetes and different problems are very, very vulnerable. We learned a lot. Young Children aren't even younger. People aren't. We've learned a lot, but he wants to shut it down. More people will be hurt by continuing. If you look at Pennsylvania, if you look at certain states that have been shut down, they have Democrat governors. All one of the reasons this shutdown is because they want to keep it shut down until after the election in November. Because it's a political because those but those states, those states are not doing well that has shut, responded President, You
[29:46] Chris Wallace: have begun to increasingly questioned the effectiveness of masks as a disease preventer. And in fact, recently you have cited the the issue of waiters touching their mass and touching plates. Are you questioning?
[30:01] Donald Trump: Oh, I think absolutely. You have to understand if you look I mean, I have a mask right here. I put a mask on a You know when I think I need it tonight as an example. Everybody's had a test and you've had social distancing and all of the things that you have to. But I wear masks when needed when needed. I wear masks e don't have. I don't wear mess like him. Every time you see him, he's got a mess. He could be speaking 200 ft away from it. He shows up with the biggest mask I've ever seen, I will say by
[30:28] Chris Wallace: Vice President Biden. Go ahead, sir.
[30:30] Joe Biden: Look. The way to open businesses is given the wherewithal to be able open. We provided money. The car
[30:37] Chris Wallace: that I was asking about masks, well,
[30:39] Joe Biden: mask, mask, make a big difference. His own head of the C. D. C. Said if we just wore masks between Now, if everybody wore a mask in social distance between now and January, we probably save up to 100,000 lives. It matters,
[30:52] Donald Trump: and they've also sat opposite. They also said no. No serious person said the opposite the nose. Well, seriously, Fauci. Dr. Fauci said they didn't wait very strong. A minute left in the past are not good. Then he changed his mind. He said, Miss good. I'm okay with Mass.
[31:08] Chris Wallace: I wanna ask you both about one last subject because you're different. Protesters even affected the way that you have campaigned. President Trump, you're holding large rallies with crowds packed together. Thousands of people outside. Yes, sir. Agreed. Vice President Biden. You are holding much smaller events with
[31:28] Donald Trump: Nobody will show up. People with nobody shows up to his room.
[31:33] Chris Wallace: All right, in any case, why you holding the big rallies? Why you not? You go first, sir.
[31:38] Donald Trump: Because people wanna hear what I have to say. I mean, ways the president and I have 25. 35,000 people show up at airports. We use airports. Way have a lot of people. Well, so far, we have had no problem whatsoever. It's outside. That's a big difference, according to the experts. And we do, um, outside. We have tremendous crowds, as you see, I mean, every and and literally on 24 hours notice. And Joe does the circles and has three people someplace. By the way, the 01 of the
[32:11] Joe Biden: last big rallies he has and a reporter came up to him to ask him a question. He said, No, no, no. Stand back. Put on your mask, Put on a mask. Have you been tested? I'm way. I'm way far away from those other people. That's what he said. I can't. I'm gonna be okay. He
[32:27] Donald Trump: now worried about you. He's not
[32:28] Joe Biden: worried about the people out there breathing in one. We've had
[32:30] Donald Trump: no negative thio, no negative effect. We've had no negative effect. And we've had 35 40,000 people.
[32:36] Chris Wallace: One of the Israelis just quickly finish up because I want to move on to our next.
[32:40] Joe Biden: Yes, I would. He's been totally irresponsible the way in which he has handled the social distancing and people were in mask basically encourage them not to. All right, then he's a fool on.
[32:50] Donald Trump: If you could get the crowds, you would have done the same thing. But you can't. Nobody can.
[32:54] Chris Wallace: Gentlemen, can we move on to the gentlemen? Can we move on to the economy. Yes, the economy is, I think, it's fair to say, recovering faster than expected from the shutdown in the second quarter. The unemployment rate fell to 8.4% last month. The Federal Reserve says the hit toe growth, which is going to be there is not going to be nearly as big as they had expected. President Trump, you say we are in a V shaped recovery, Vice President Biden. You say it's more of a K shape. What difference does that mean to the American people In terms of the economy? President Trump, In this segment, you go first.
[33:34] Donald Trump: So we built the greatest economy in history. We closed it down because of the China plague. When the plague came in, we closed it down, which was very hard psychologically to do. He didn't think we should close it down and he was wrong. And again two million people would be dead now instead of still 204,000 people is too much. One person is too much. Should have never happened from China. But what happened is we closed it down and now we're reopening and we're doing record business. We had 10.4 million people in a four month period that we've put back into the workforce. That's a record the likes of which nobody's ever seen before. And he wants to close down the He will shut it down again. He will destroy this country. You know a lot of people between drugs and alcohol and depression. When you start shutting it down, you take a look at what's happening at some of your Democrat run states where they have these tough shutdowns, and I'm telling you, it's because they don't want to open it. One of them came out last week. You saw that. We're gonna open up in November 9th one November 9th because it's after the election. They think they're hurting us by keeping them closed. They're hurting people. People know what to dio taken social distance. They can wash their hands, they can wear mask, they could do whatever they want, but they got open these states up. When you look at North Carolina, when you look at these governors air under siege Pennsylvania, Michigan and a couple of others, you get open these states up. It's not fair you're talking about almost. It's like being in prison and you look at what's going on with divorce. Look at what's going on with alcoholism and drugs. It's a very, very sad thing, and he'll close down the whole country. This guy will close down the whole country and destroy our country. Our country is coming back incredibly well, setting records as it does it. We don't need somebody to come in and say, Let's shut it down,
[35:18] Chris Wallace: All right? You're two minutes, sir, We're now moved to you as I as I said, posing the question, The president says It's a V shaped recovery. You say it's a K shaped recovery. What's the difference?
[35:31] Joe Biden: The difference is millionaires and billionaires like him in the middle of covert crisis have done very well. Another billionaires of Ray have made another $300 billion because of his profligate tax, uh, proposal. And he only focused on the market. But you folks at home, you folks living in Scranton and Claymont and all the small towns and working class towns in America. How are you doing? This guy paid a total of $750
[35:59] Donald Trump: in taxes.
[36:00] Chris Wallace: Wait, no, e. I understand you've agreed to the two minutes, so please let him have it.
[36:05] Joe Biden: I get my time back. The fact is that he is in fact worked on this in a way that he's going to be the first president United States to leave office, having fewer jobs in his administration than when he became president. Fewer jobs then when he became from the first one in American history. Secondly, the people who have lost their jobs are those people who have been on the front lines, those people who have been saving our lives, those people who have been out there dying, people who've been putting themselves in the way to make sure that we could all try to make it. And the idea that he is insisting that we go forward and open when you have almost half the states in America with a significant increase in covert deaths and covert cases in the United States America and he wants to open
[36:52] Donald Trump: it up MAWR. Why does he want to open it up? Why doesn't he take
[36:55] Joe Biden: care of the American? You can't fix the economy until you fix the covert crisis, and he has no intention of doing anything about making it better for you all at home in terms of your health and your safety schools. Why aren't schools open? Because it costs a lot of money to open safely. You know, they were going to give his administration going to give the teachers and school students mask. And then they decided No, couldn't do that. Because it's not a national emergency, not a national emergency. They've done nothing to help. Small business is nothing. They're closing One in six is now gone. He ought to get on the job and take care of the needs of the American people so we can open safe.
[37:36] Chris Wallace: Your time is up, sir. We're gonna get Thio going
[37:39] Donald Trump: to respond to that.
[37:40] Chris Wallace: Well, you both had two minutes, sir.
[37:41] Donald Trump: Excuse me. He made a statement
[37:43] Chris Wallace: s O that
[37:44] Donald Trump: people want their schools. No. People want their schools open. They don't want to be shut down. They don't want their state shut down. They want their restaurants. I look at New York. It's so sad. What's happening in New York? It's almost like a ghost town. And I'm not sure it can ever recover what they've done in New York. People want their places open. They want to get back to their people. They'll be careful, but they want their schools. I'm the one that brought back football. By the way, I brought back Big 10 football. It was me. And I'm very happy to do it. All right. People of Ohio are very proud of me. And you don't get that, gentlemen, We're
[38:18] Chris Wallace: gonna get to your economic plans going forward in a moment. But first, Mr President, as you well know, there's a new report that in 2016 the year you were elected president in 2017 your first year as president that you paid $750 a year in federal income tax each of those years, I know that you pay a lot of other taxes, but I'm asking you the specific question. Is it true that you paid $750 in federal income taxes each of those two years?
[38:50] Donald Trump: I paid millions of dollars in taxes, millions of dollars of income tax. And let me just tell you, there was a story in one of the papers that e I paid $38 million. One year I paid 27 million e I went, you'll see it as soon as it's finished. You'll see it. You know, if you want to do go to the Board of Elections, there's 118 page or so report that says everything. I have every bank I have. I'm totally under leverage because the assets are extremely good and we have a very we have built our I'm
[39:23] Chris Wallace: asking you a specific question, which,
[39:25] Donald Trump: let me tell you,
[39:26] Chris Wallace: and I understand all of this, you understand? But no, Mr President, I'm asking you a question. Will you tell us how much you paid in federal income taxes in 2016 and 2017
[39:39] Donald Trump: millions of dollars.
[39:40] Chris Wallace: You paid millions of
[39:41] Donald Trump: dollars of dollars, not seven millions of dollars, and you get to see it on and you get to win it. But let me dio, Chris, let me just say something that it was the tax laws. I don't want to pay tax. Before I came here, I was a private developer. I was a private business. People like every other private person. Unless they're stupid, they go through the laws and that's what it is. He passed a tax bill that gave us all these privileges for depreciation and for a tax credits. We build the building and we get tax credits like the hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue. You get a massive which, by the way, was given to me by the Obama administration. If you can believe that now, the man got fired right after that happened.
[40:23] Chris Wallace: But President Biden, you want to respond?
[40:24] Joe Biden: Yeah, I do want to respond. Look, the tax code that made him the put him in a position that he pays less tax and a schoolteacher make on the money a schoolteacher makes is because of him. Take. He says he's smart because he can take advantage of the tax code and he does take advantage of the tax code. That's why I'm gonna eliminate the trump tax cuts, and we're gonna We're gonna eliminate those tax cuts and make sure that we invest in the people who in fact, need the help. People out there need
[40:55] Donald Trump: help. But why didn't you do it over the last 25 years? Because you are president because you are president screwing things up. You're a senator and the worst president
[41:04] Joe Biden: America has ever had.
[41:06] Donald Trump: Let me just tell you, Joe I've dunmore in. In 47 months, I've done more than you've done in 47 years, Joe. We've done things that you never even thought of, including fixing the broken military that you gave me. Taking care of
[41:20] Chris Wallace: talking. Mr. President, we're talking about the economy. I'd like to ask you about your plans going forward. Because, Mr Vice President, your economic plan, if you were to be elected president, focuses a lot on big government. Big taxes, big spending. I wanna focus first on the taxes you propose more than $4 trillion over a decade in new taxes, on individuals making more than $400,000 a year and on corporations. President Trump says that that kind of a increase in taxes is going to hurt the economy is it's just coming out of a recession.
[41:55] Joe Biden: Well, just take a look at what, as the analysis been done by Wall Street firms, points out that my my economic plan would create seven million more jobs in his and four years Number one and number two. It would create an additional $1 trillion in economic growth because it would be about buying American that we have to. We're gonna make this federal government spent $600 billion year on everything from ships to steal toe buildings and the like. And under my proposal, we're gonna make sure that every penny of that has to be made by a company
[42:32] Chris Wallace: spent. I'm talking about taxes spending,
[42:35] Joe Biden: by the way. I'm gonna eliminate significant number the tax. I'm gonna make the the corporate tax 28%. It shouldn't be 21%. You have 1991 companies, Federal. I mean in the Fortune 500 who don't pay a single penny in tax making
[42:51] Donald Trump: billions of dollars billions of because Because you, in fact, passed that that was your tax proposal. You got it down. Economy Boom. It's never been. The economy
[43:03] Chris Wallace: is just let me finish. Mr. President, let me pick up on that. You would continue. You're free market approach. Lower taxes, mawr deregulation correct. Not
[43:13] Joe Biden: lower taxes, American people.
[43:16] Chris Wallace: But but in Obama's you talk about the economy booming. It turns out that in Obama's final three years as president, more jobs were created a million and a half more jobs that in the first three years of your presidency
[43:29] Donald Trump: they had the slowest recovery since 19 economic recovery since 1929. It was the slowest recovery. Also, they took over something that was down here. All you have to do is turn on the lights and you pick up a lot. But they had the slowest economic recovery since 1929. Let me tell you about the stock market. When the stock market goes up, that means jobs. It also means 401 case. If you got in, if you ever became president with your ideas, you want to terminate my tax, my taxes. I'll tell you what you'll lose half of the companies that have poured in here we'll leave and plenty of companies that are already here, they'll leave for other places. They will leave and you will have a depression, the likes of which you've never seen. Look, we
[44:12] Joe Biden: inherited the worst recession short of a depression in American history. I was asked to bring it back. We were able to have an economic recovery that created the jobs you're talking about. We handed him a booming economy. He blew it.
[44:26] Donald Trump: It wasn't. He blew it. He blew it and booming. It was It was the week? A.
[44:33] Chris Wallace: Is it fair to say he blew it when, in fact, when there was record on a low unemployment before Cove it?
[44:40] Joe Biden: Yeah, but because what he did, even before covert manufacturing went in the hole, manufacturing went in the hole. Number one, number two.
[44:48] Donald Trump: Number three. You would take your number to know. Chris. Chris. They said it would take a miracle to bring back manufacturing. I brought back 700,000 jobs. They brought back nothing. They gave up on manufacturing standard fare.
[45:04] Joe Biden: I'm the guy that way brought back. I was asked to bring back Chrysler and General Motors. You brought him back right here in the state of Ohio and Michigan. He blew it. They're gone. He blew it. And in fact, they're
[45:17] Donald Trump: going. Io had the best year it's ever had. Last year, Michigan had the best year they've ever had. Is not any car companies came in from Germany from John, went to Michigan, went to Ohio, not happen. And they didn't come in with you,
[45:29] Chris Wallace: Mr. Vice President.
[45:30] Joe Biden: And so you take a look at what he's actually done. He's done very little, its trade deals or the same way he talks about thes great trade deals. You know, he talks about the art of the deal China has made perfected the art of the steal. We have a higher deficit with China now than we did before. We have the highest definite trade
[45:48] Donald Trump: deficit with Mexico. 20% China ate your lunch, Joe. And no wonder your son goes in and he takes out what he takes out. Billions of dollars takes out billions of dollars to manage. He makes millions of dollars. And also, while we're at it, why is it just out of curiosity, the mayor of Moscow's wife gave you Sun $3.5 million? What did he do to deserve it? What did he do with Verizon? Deserve $183,000
[46:17] Chris Wallace: a year. If not,
[46:19] Joe Biden: none of that is true.
[46:20] Donald Trump: Really? A Mr President is totally
[46:23] Joe Biden: president. Please, Totally discredited, totally discredited. And by the way,
[46:28] Donald Trump: way get half a million dollars. Joe. Mr Vice, you got three president dollars. It is not true, Mr President.
[46:35] Chris Wallace: It's an open discussion. Please you. It's a fact. Well, you have raised an issue. Let us been president. Answer
[46:43] Donald Trump: discredited. It was 100 and $83 a month with no experience in energy. Look, my son
[46:50] Joe Biden: did nothing wrong. And Barisan Mr President Guy that the answer he doesn't want Let me answer because he knows I have the truth. His position has been totally, thoroughly discredited. And you could buy everybody well by the media, by our allies by the World Bank. By bye, everyone has discredited a matter of fact, matter of fact people who testified under oath.
[47:16] Donald Trump: So let me Oh,
[47:18] Chris Wallace: I'm listening to
[47:19] Joe Biden: people under you got three testified, testified under oath, and his administration said, I did my job and I did it very well, really honorably. They are every, well, I'll give you the list of the people who testing. I'm sure you've already fired most of them because they
[47:36] Donald Trump: did a good job. Well, here's you.
[47:39] Chris Wallace: Wait a minute. You get the final word.
[47:41] Joe Biden: Well, it's hard to get any word in with this clown. Excuse me? This
[47:44] Donald Trump: Hey, let me just say
[47:45] Chris Wallace: no. No, Mr President
[47:47] Donald Trump: and a half president. That is simply Why did he deserve 3.5 million from Moscow?
[47:52] Joe Biden: Look, here's the deal. We want to talk about families and ethics. I don't want to do that. I mean, his family, we could talk about all night. His family
[48:01] Donald Trump: is our family, that family fortune coming down and helping us with governments. And that's such a such a great one of them. This
[48:10] Joe Biden: is not about my family or his family. It's about your family
[48:13] Donald Trump: that the American people, he doesn't. That's
[48:16] Joe Biden: not true. It doesn't want to talk about what you need. You, the American people, it's about you. That's what we're talking about.
[48:25] Chris Wallace: All right, that that's the end of the day. We're moving on.
[48:28] Joe Biden: It didn't take
[48:29] Donald Trump: them Vice President. No, it's a very trying T o. No. The answer to that question is no Ukraine. No, sir. With a billion dollars of that. You know what? You're not You're doing it.
[48:43] Chris Wallace: You're gonna have true gentlemen e hate to raise my voice, but it seems to be why shouldn't I be different than the two of you? So here's the data point. We have six segments. We have ended that segment. We're going to go to the next segment in that segment, you each you're gonna have to uninterrupted moments in those two interrupted minutes. Mr. President, you can say anything you want. I've been asked a question about race. But if you want to answer about something else, go ahead. But way. I think that the country would be better served if we allowed both people to speak with fewer interruptions. I'm appealing to you, sir, to do
[49:18] Donald Trump: that. And him too.
[49:20] Chris Wallace: Well, frankly, you've been doing more interrupted
[49:22] Donald Trump: that. But he does plenty.
[49:24] Chris Wallace: Well, less than sir. Less than plenty now, less than you have. Let's please continue one. The issue of race Vice President Biden. You say that President Trump's response to the violence in Charlottesville three years ago when he talked about very fine people on both sides was what directly lead you to launch this run for president?
[49:47] Donald Trump: Oh, yes, sure,
[49:48] Chris Wallace: President Trump, you have often said that you believe you have dunmore for black Americans than any president. With the possible exception of Abraham Lincoln, My question for the two of you is why should voters trust you rather than your opponent to deal with the race issues facing this country over the next four years? Vice President Biden, you go first.
[50:11] Joe Biden: It's about equity and equality It's about decency. It's about the Constitution, and we have never walked away from trying to quite require equity for everyone. Equality for the whole of America. But we've never accomplished. But we've never walked away from it like he has done. It is true. The reason I got in the race is when those people close your eyes. Remember what those people look like coming out of the fields, carrying torches, their veins bulging beauty, just spewing anti Semitic bile and accompanied by the Ku Klux Klan. A young woman got killed, and they asked the president what he thought. He said There were very fine people on both sides. No presidents ever said anything like that. Now, 2nd, 2nd point I'd make you is that when Floyd was killed, when Mr Floyd was killed, there was a peaceful protest in front of the White House. What did he do? He came out of his bunker. Had the military do use tear gas, arms who could walk across to a church and hold up a Bible, and then what happened after that? The bishop of that very church said that it was the disgrace. The general who was with him said he all the everyone's through is divide people, not unite people It all. This is a president who has used everything as a dog whistle to try to generate racist hatred. Racist division. This is a man who in fact, you talk about helping African Americans. One in 1000 African Americans has been killed because of the Corona, the Corona virus. And if he doesn't do something quickly by the end of the year, one in 500 will have been killed. One in 500 African Americans. This man, this man is the is the savior of African Americans. This man cares at all. This man's done virtually nothing. Look, the fact is that you have to look at what he's talks about. You have to look at what he did. And what he did has been disastrous for the African American community.
[52:09] Chris Wallace: So President Trump, you have two minutes. Why should Americans trust you over your opponent to deal with race?
[52:16] Donald Trump: Did the crime bill 1994 where you call them Super predators, African Americans, A super predators. And they've never forgotten it. They've never forgotten. It s so you did that and they call you super predator, and I'm letting people out of jail. Now that you have treated the African American population community, you have treated the black community about as bad as anybody in this country. You did the 19 and that's why if you look at the polls, I'm doing better than any Republican has done in a long time because they saw what you did. You call them super Predators, and you've called them worse than that because you look back at your testimony over the years, you've called them a lot worse than that as far as the church is concerned. And as far as the generals are concerned, we just got the support of 202 150 military leaders and generals. Total support. Law enforcement, almost every law enforcement group in the United States. I have Florida. I have Texas, I have Ohio. I have every Excuse me, Portland The sheriff just came out today and he said, I support President Trump. I don't think you have any law enforcement. You can't even say the word law enforcement does. If you say those words, you're gonna lose all of your radical left supporters and Why aren't you saying those words? Why don't you say the words law enforcement? Because you know what? If they called us in Portland, we would put out that fire in a half A Now, er but they won't do it because they're run by radical left Democrats. If you look at Chicago, if you look at any place you want to look Seattle, they heard we were coming in the following day and they put up their hands and we got back Seattle, Minneapolis. We got it back, Joe, because we believe in law and order. But you don't. The top 10 cities in just about the top 40 cities are run by Democrats and in many cases, radical left. And they've got you wrapped around their Finger Joe to a point where you don't want to say anything about law and order. And I'll tell you what the people of this country want and demand law and order, and you're afraid to even say it.
[54:17] Chris Wallace: All right? I want I want to return to the question of race. Vice President Biden, after the grand jury in the Briana Taylor case, decided not to charge any of the police with homicide. You said it raises the question. Quote whether justice could be equally applied in America. Do you believe that there is a separate but unequal system of justice for blacks in this country?
[54:41] Joe Biden: Yes, there is a systemic injustice in this country, in education and work and in law enforcement and the and the way in which is enforced. But look, the vast majority of police officers are good, decent, honorable men and women. They risk their lives every day to take care of us. But there are some bad apples. And when they occur, when they find them, they have to be sorted out. They have to be held accountable. They have to be held accountable. And what I'm going to do is press. The United States is called a together an entire group of people at the White House. Well, everything from the civil rights groups to the police officers, the police chiefs and we're gonna work this out. We're gonna work this out. So we changed the way in which we have more transparency. And when these things happen, thes cops aren't happy to see what happened. T George Floyd thes cops aren't happy to see what happened. Toe Briana Taylor. Most don't like it, but we have to have a system where people are held accountable when and by the way violence in response is never appropriate. Never appropriate. Peaceful protest is violence is never appropriate.
[55:47] Donald Trump: What is peaceful protest when they run through the middle of the town, burned down your stores and kill people from your peaceful president, You say it is President Trump.
[55:58] Chris Wallace: I'd like to continue with the issue of race. I promise we're going to get to the issue of law and order. In a moment this month, your administration directed federal agencies toe end racial sensitivity training that addresses white privilege or critical race theory. Why did you decide to do that? To end racial sensitivity training? And do you believe that there is systemic racism in this country? Sir,
[56:24] Donald Trump: I ended it because it's racist. I ended it because a lot of people were complaining that they were asked to do things that were absolutely insane, that it was a radical revolution that was taking place in our military, in our schools all over the place and you know it and so does everybody else. And he would know totally racial sensitivity. If you were a certain person, you had no status in life. It was sort of a reversal. And if you look at the people, we were paying people hundreds of thousands of dollars to teach very bad ideas and, frankly, very sick ideas. And and really, they were teaching people to hate our country, and I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to allow that to happen. We have to go back to the core values of this country. They were teaching people that our country is a horrible place. It's a racist place, and they were teaching people to hate our country, and I'm not going to allow that to happen.
[57:21] Chris Wallace: Vice President Biden.
[57:22] Joe Biden: Nobody's doing that. He's just he's racist. You just don't. Here's the deal. I I know a lot more about let him finish. The fact is that there is racial insensitivity. People have to be made aware of what other people feel like what what insults them, what is demeaning to them? It's important that people know they don't want toe. Many people don't wanna hurt other people's feelings, but it makes a big difference. It makes a gigantic difference in the way a child is able to grow up and have a self, A sense of self esteem. It's a little bit like how this guy and his friends looked down on so many people. They look down their nose on people like Irish Catholics like me and grew up in Scranton. They look down on people who don't have money. They look down on people who are of a different faith. They look down on people who are a different color. In fact, we're all Americans. The only way we're gonna bring this country together is bring everybody together is nothing we cannot do. If we do it together, we can take this on and we can defeat racism.
[58:23] Chris Wallace: President, I mean, President Trump's
[58:25] Donald Trump: During the Obama Biden administration, there was tremendous division. There was hatred. You look at what Ferguson you look at you Goto very many places. Look at Oakland. Look what happened in Oakland. Look what happened in Baltimore. Look what happened. Frankly, it was more violent than what I'm even seeing now. But the reason this is that the Democrats have run these cities don't wanna talk like you about law and order you still haven't mentioned. Are you in favor of law and order? I'm
[58:54] Joe Biden: in favor of law. You follow
[58:56] Donald Trump: you in favor of law and order. You ask the question. Your orders is law. Let
[59:02] Joe Biden: him all in order with justice, where people get treated fairly. And the fact of the matter is violent. Crime went down 17%. 15% in our administration. Alright. Gone up on his watch
[59:14] Donald Trump: down. Much more he has. All right, We're not Mr President. You're gonna have a man. Mr. President, every record,
[59:21] Chris Wallace: Mr. President, is gonna be very happy because we're not gonna talk about law and
[59:23] Donald Trump: Order because we had trouble with Democratic run cities.
[59:27] Chris Wallace: That's exactly my question. There has been a dramatic increase in homicides in America this summer particularly, and you often blame that on Democratic mayors and Democratic governors. But in fact, there have been equivalent spikes in Republican led cities like Tulsa and Fort Worth. So the question is, is this really a party issue?
[59:48] Donald Trump: I think it's a party issue. You could bring in a couple of examples, but if you look at Chicago, what's going on in Chicago where 53 people were shot and ate. Diets shot. If you look at New York where it's going up like nobody's ever seen anything, the numbers are going up 100 152 100% crime. It is crazy what's going on. And he doesn't want to say Law and Order because he can't because he'll lose his radical left supporters, and once he does that, it's over with. But if he ever got to run this country and they ran it the way he would want to run it, we would have. We were suburbs would be done by the way our suburbs would be gun and you would see problems like he would know
[60:27] Joe Biden: suburb unless he took a wrong turn.
[60:29] Donald Trump: I know Suburb
[60:30] Joe Biden: E was raised in the suburbs. This is not 1950. All these dog whistles on racism don't work anymore. Suburbs or by and large, integrated. There's many people today driving their kids to soccer practice and order black and white and Hispanic in the same car as there have been any time in the past. What's what really is a threat to the suburbs and their safety is his failure to deal with Kovar they're dying in the suburbs. His failure to deal with the environment, They're being flooded. They're being burned out because he's refusing to do anything. That's why the suburbs Aaron
[61:05] Chris Wallace: Trump. I do want to talk about this issue of law and order, though. And in the joint recommendation that came from the Biden Bernie Sanders Task Force, you talked about quote, reimagining policing. First of all, what does reimagining policing mean? And do you support? It means Let me if I might finish the question. What is reimagining policing mean? And do you support the black lives? Matter? Uh, call for, uh, for community control of policing.
[61:36] Joe Biden: Look what I support is the police having the opportunity to deal with the problems they face, And I'm totally opposed to defunding the police officers. It's a matter of fact, police. Local police, the only one defunding in his budget, calls for $400 million cut and local law enforcement assistance. They need mawr assistance they need when they show up for a 9 11 call. To have someone with him is a psychologist or psychiatrist to keep them from having to use force and be able to talk people down. We have to have community policing like we had before. Where the officers get to know the people in the communities. That's when crime went down. It didn't go up, it went down. And so we have to
[62:17] Donald Trump: being what they're talking about. Ze, that he's talking about defunding that that is not true. He doesn't have any law. What support? He has no law Enforce. That's not true. Almost that look right? Who do you have name? One group that supports you. Name one group that came out and supported you. Go ahead.
[62:36] Joe Biden: I think we have time. We don't have time to D
[62:38] Donald Trump: o Alright. Law enforcement group E. Gentlemen,
[62:44] Chris Wallace: I think I'm gonna I'm gonna take back the moderators on. I want to get to another subject, which is the issue of protests in many cities that have turned violent in Portland, Oregon, especially. We had more than 100 straight days of protests, which I think you would agree. You talk about peaceful protests. Many of those turned into riots. Mr. Vice President, you say that people who commit crimes should be held accountable. The question I have, though, is as the Democratic nominee and earlier tonight, you said that you are the Democratic Party right now. Have you ever called the Democratic mayor of Portland or the Democratic governor of Oregon and said, Hey, you've got to stop this, Bring in the National Guard, do whatever it takes, But you'd stop the days and months of violence in Portland. I
[63:33] Joe Biden: don't hold public office now. I am a former vice president. I've made it clear I made it clear in my public statements that the violence should be prosecuted. It should be prosecuted, anyone who commits it.
[63:45] Chris Wallace: But you've never called for the people that the leader. Excuse me, sir. You had never called for the leaders in Portland and in Oregon to call us, bring in the National Guard and knock off 100 days of riots.
[63:58] Joe Biden: They can in fact, take care of it if he just stay out of the way.
[64:02] Donald Trump: Really? Really. E get the killer of a young man in the middle of the street. And they shot him. And for three days, President Trump support. Let's do anything I had interrupted in the U. S. Marshals took care of business.
[64:15] Chris Wallace: Go ahead, sir.
[64:16] Joe Biden: And by the way, you know, his own former spokesperson said. You know, riots and chaos and violence help his cause. That's what this is all
[64:25] Donald Trump: about. I don't know who said
[64:26] Joe Biden: that I do who I think Kellyanne Conway she said. That s so here's all right. But here's the point. The point is that that's what he is. Keep trying to rile everything up. He doesn't want to calm things down instead of going in and talking to people and saying, Let's get everybody together, figure out how to deal with this. What's he do? He just pours gasoline on the fire constantly and every single solitary.
[64:52] Chris Wallace: Okay, And end this button up this segment. I'm gonna give you a minute to answer. Sir, you have repeatedly criticized to answer his uh, you have stated like you have repeated you've been talking
[65:03] Donald Trump: to me. I'm asking you, you know, sir, I would. You know, if
[65:07] Chris Wallace: you want to switch seats, we could very quickly we could do that,
[65:10] Donald Trump: but I'm in the National Guard. It would be over. There'd be no problem, but they don't want to accept the national.
[65:15] Chris Wallace: You have repeatedly criticized the vice president for not specifically calling out Antifa and other left wing extremist groups. But are you willing tonight to condemn white supremacists and militia groups and to say that they need to stand down and not add to the violence and a number of these cities as we saw in Kenosha? And as we've seen in Portland
[65:39] Donald Trump: are, um America specifically do it. Go ahead. A. I would say almost everything I see is from the left wing, not from the right. So what do you What do you What are you saying? I'm willing to do anything. I want to see peace. Do it, Sir. Do it. Say you want to call them. What do you want to call them? Give me a name. Give me a promise. Doesn't like me to conduct a problem? Boys, stand back and stand by. But I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what somebody's got to do. Something about Antifa and the Left because this is not a right wing. Problem is this is a lefty. I direct. This is a left wing white supremacist and TIF is an idea not on organization. You got it? Not malicious. That's what his FBI, his FBI director said, Well, you know Now that
[66:24] Chris Wallace: we're done, sir, we're moving on to the next
[66:26] Donald Trump: one. We're bad your administration. An idea. Everybody for your administration tells you the truth is about as a bad idea. I have no idea Antifa is a dangerous gentlemen. We're
[66:39] Chris Wallace: now moving on to the trump like records over when a president, I'm going to ask a question. When the president seeks a second term, it is generally a referendum on his record. But Vice President Biden, you like to quote one of your dad's sayings, which is Don't compare me to the Almighty. Compare me to the alternative. And in this case, sir, you are the alternative. Looking at both of your records, I'm going to ask each of you. Why should voters elect you president over your opponent in this segment? President Trump, you go first two minutes
[67:13] Donald Trump: because there has never been an administration of president who has dunmore than I've done in a period of 3.5 years. And that's despite the impeachment hoax. And you saw what happened today with Hillary Clinton, where it was Ah, whole big con job. But despite going through, all of these things were had to fight both flanks and behind me and above. There has never been an administration that's done what I've done the greatest before. Covert came in the greatest economy in history. Lowest unemployment numbers. Everything was good, everything was going. And by the way, there was unity goingto happen. People were calling me for the first time in years. They were calling and they were saying It's time, Maybe. And then what happened? We got hit. But now we're building it back up again. A rebuilding of the military, including Space Force and all of the other things. A fixing of the VA, which was a mess under him. 308,000 people died because they didn't have proper health care. He was a mess, and we now got a 91% approval rating at the VA. Our vets, we take care of our vets, but we've rebuilt our military, the job that we've done and I'll tell you some some people say maybe the most important. By the end of the first term, I'll have approximately 300 federal judges and Court of Appeals judges, 300 hopefully three great Supreme Court judges, justices that is a record the likes of which very few people. And you know, one of the reasons I have so many judges because President Obama and him left me 128 judges to fill. When you leave office, you don't leave any judges. That's like you just don't do that. They left 128 openings, and if I were a member of his party because they have a little different philosophy, I'd say if you left us 128 openings, you can't be a good president. You can't be a good vice president, but I want to thank you because it gives us almost. It'll probably be above that number by the end of this term. 300 judges. It's a record
[69:16] Chris Wallace: looking at both your records. Why should voters elect you president as opposed to President Trump? You have two minutes uninterrupted
[69:24] Joe Biden: under this president. We become weaker sugar poor, more divided and more violent. When I was vice president, we inherited a recession. I was asked to fix it. I did. We left him a booming economy and he caused the recession with regard to be weaker. The fact is that I've gone head to head with Putin and made it clear to him we're not going to take any of his stuff. He's Putin's puppy. He still refuses to even say anything to Putin about the bounty on the heads of American soldiers.
[69:57] Donald Trump: Your son got no million dollars, by the way, Mr Price.
[70:01] Chris Wallace: Wait a minute, Mr. President, Your campaign agreed. Said both sides would get two minute answers uninterrupted. Well, your your side agreed to it. And why don't you observe what your campaign agreed to as a ground rule? Okay, sir.
[70:15] Joe Biden: You never keeps his word. No,
[70:17] Chris Wallace: no, no, I'm not. That was a rhetorical question. Go ahead. 30 seconds. Yes. Yes, you may have go ahead. So
[70:24] Joe Biden: thirdly or poor, the billionaires have gotten much, much more wealthy by a tune of over 43 to $400 billion more just since co vid you and home, you got less. You're in more trouble than you were before in terms of being more violent when we were in office. Over 15% less violence in America than there is today. He's president, United States. It's on his watch. And with regard to more divided the nation that can't stay divided. We can't be this way. And speaking of my son, the way you talk about the military, the way you talk about them being losers and being and and and and just being suckers, My son was in Iraq. He spent a year there. He got he got the Bronze Star. He got too conspicuous Service medal. He was not a loser. He was a patriot. And the people left behind, there were heroes.
[71:21] Donald Trump: And I resent, like, I'm talking about my son, Beau Biden you're talking about? I don't know. I've thrown Hunter got thrown out of the military. He was thrown out dishonorably discharged. That's not true. Cocaine use. And he didn't have a job until you became vice president. Would you not have that president? He made a fortune in Ukraine in China and must simply various of the places he, my son fortune, my son. And he didn't have a just sun
[71:50] Joe Biden: like a lot of people. Like a lot of people, you know, at home had a drug problem. He's overtaking it, He's fixed it, he's worked on it. And I'm proud of him.
[71:60] Donald Trump: But I was out of my son, but he wasn't giving 10. 2 million is up. That is totally, totally different. Credit. You've already. We've
[72:07] Chris Wallace: already been totally discredited. We both. We've already been through this. I think the American people would rather hear about more substantial subjects. Well, you know, as the moderator, sir, I'm gonna make
[72:18] Donald Trump: a judgment call here. Okay, Let's talk about Let's talk about gentlemen. Report is total Iris credit
[72:25] Joe Biden: I. Mitt Romney on that committee said it wasn't worth taxpayers money. That reporter has written for political reasons.
[72:31] Chris Wallace: You know, I'd like to talk about climate change. So would I. Okay. The forest fires in the West are raging now. They have burned millions of acres. They have displaced hundreds of thousands of people. When state officials there blamed the fires on climate change. Mr. President, you said I don't think the science knows. Over your four years, you have pulled the US out of the Paris climate accord. You have rolled back a number of Obama environmental records. What do you believe about the science of climate change? And what will you do in the next four years to confront it?
[73:10] Donald Trump: I want crystal clean water and air I want beautiful, clean air. We have now the lowest carbon. If you look at our numbers right now, we are doing phenomenally. But I haven't destroyed our businesses. Are businesses aren't put out of commission If you look at the Paris Accord, it was a disaster from our standpoint. And people are actually very happy about what's going on because our businesses are doing well. As far as the fires air concerned, you need forest management in addition to everything else. The forest floors are loaded up with trees, dead trees that a years old and they're like tinder and leaves and everything else. You drop a cigarette in there, the whole forest burns down. You've gotta have forest management. Do you believe? What do you
[73:52] Chris Wallace: believe about the science of climate change, sir,
[73:55] Donald Trump: I believe that we have to do everything we can tow, have immaculate air, immaculate water and do whatever else we can. That's good. You know, we're planting a billion trees, the billion tree project, and it's very if you
[74:07] Chris Wallace: believe that human pollution, gas, greenhouse gas emissions contributes to the global warming up.
[74:14] Donald Trump: I think a lot of things do, but I think to an extent, Yes, I think to an extent, yes, but I also think we have to do better management of our forests. Every year I get the call. California's burning California's burning if that was cleaned, if that were, if you had forest management, good forest management, you wouldn't be getting those calls. You know, in Europe, they live their forest cities. They're called forest cities. They maintain their forests, they manage their forests. I was with the head of a major country. It's a forest city, he said. Sir, we have trees that our farm or they ignite much easier than California. There shouldn't be that problem. I spoke with the governor about I'm getting along very well with the governor. But I said, You know, at some point you can't every year have hundreds of thousands of acres of land just burned to the ground that's burning down because of a lack of
[75:07] Chris Wallace: matter. If you believe in the science of climate change, why have you roll back the Obama Clean Power plan, which limited carbon emissions in power plants? Why have you relax?
[75:18] Donald Trump: Because it was driving energy prices through the sky?
[75:20] Chris Wallace: Have you relaxed? Fuel economy standards that are going to create more pollution from cars,
[75:26] Donald Trump: not probably because what's happening is the car is much less expensive and it's a much safer car and you're talking about a tiny difference. And then what would happen because of the cost of the car, you would have at least double and triple the number of cars purchase. We have the old slugs out there that a 10 12 years old. If you did that, the car would be safer. It would be much cheaper by 3500 California. You would take a lot of cars off the market because people would be able to afford a car. Now eso And by the way, we're going to see how that turns out. But a lot of people agree with me many people. The car has gotten so expensive because they have computers all over the place for an extra little bit of gasoline. And and I'm okay with electric cars to I think I'm all for electric cars. I've given big incentives for electric cars, but what they've done in California is just crazy.
[76:17] Chris Wallace: Vice President Biden. I'd like you to respond to the president's climate change record. But I also want to ask you about concern you propose $2 trillion in green jobs. You talk about new limits not abolishing but new limits on fracking ending the use of fossil fuels to generate electricity by 2035 0 net emission of greenhouse gasses by 2050. The president says, Ah, lot of these things would tank the economy and cost millions of jobs.
[76:46] Joe Biden: He's absolutely wrong. Number one, number two If, in fact, when when our during our administration the recovery act I was able to I was in charge, able to bring down the cost of renewable energy to cheaper than are as cheap as coal and gas and oil. Nobody's gonna build another, uh, coal fired plant in America. No one's gonna build another oil fired plant in America. They're gonna move to renewable energy number one. Number two. We're gonna make sure that we're able to take the federal fleet and turn it into a fleet that's run on their electric vehicles, making sure that we could do that. We're gonna put 500,000 charging stations and all of the highways that we're gonna be building in the future. We're gonna build a economy that in fact, is going to provide for the ability us to take four million buildings and make sure that they, in fact, are weather ized in a way that, in fact, they will emit significantly less gas and oil because the heat will not be going out. There's so many things that we can do now to create thousands and thousands of jobs. We can get toe net zero in terms of energy production by 2035 not only not costing people jobs, creating jobs, creating millions of good paying jobs, not 15 bucks an hour, but prevailing wage by having a new infrastructure that in fact is green. And the first thing I will do, I will rejoin the Paris Accord. I will join the Paris Accord because with us out of it, look what's happening. It's all falling apart and talk about someone who has no no relationship with foreign policy. Brazil. The rainforests of Brazil are being Tauran down are being ripped down. Mawr mawr carbon is absorbed in that rain forest and every bit of carbon that's admitted in the United States. Instead of doing something about that I would be gathering up on making sure we had to come to the countries of the world coming up with $20 billion say, Here's $20 billion stop, stop tearing down the forest and if you don't, then you're gonna have significant economic consequences. But what
[78:53] Chris Wallace: about the argument that President Trump basically says that you have to balance environmental interests and economic interests? And he's drawn his line
[79:03] Joe Biden: well, He hadn't drawn the line. He still, for example, make sure that we he wants to make sure that methane is not a problem we can. You can now emit more methane without it being a problem. Methane thistle is a guy who says that you don't have to have Miley standards for automobiles that exist now. This is a guy who says that, well, the fact that it's all true and he
[79:24] Donald Trump: was talking about the green New deal and it's not two billion or 20 billion. As you said, it's $100 trillion. I'm talking about where they want to write down, building on and rebuild the building. It's the dumbest, most ridiculous where airplanes air out of business, where two car systems air out where they want to take out the cows. You know, that's not true either, right? This is a This is a 100 trillion. That's more money than our country could make in 100 years if we're
[79:53] Chris Wallace: way. Because I actually wait a minute. Sir, I actually have studied your plan and it includes upgrading four million buildings, weather rising two million hounds over four years, building 1.5 a million energy efficient homes. So the question becomes some. The president is saying. I think some people who support the president would say that sounds like it's going to cost a lot of money and hurt the economy.
[80:20] Joe Biden: What is gonna do is gonna create thousands and millions of jobs. Good paying job. Let him finish her. He don't know how to do that million dollars. The fact is, it's gonna create millions of good paying jobs and these tax incentives to people for people, the weather eyes, which he wants to get get rid of. It's gonna make the economy much safer. Look how much we're paying now to deal with the hurricanes with the deal with, by the way, he has an answer for hurricanes he said Maybe should drop a nuclear weapon on them. They may. I never said that. Hey, did you made it up? Andi, Here's the deal Way. We're gonna be in a position where we can create hard, hard, good jobs by making sure the environment is clean and we all are in better shape. We spend billions of dollars now billions of dollars on floods, hurricanes, rising seas. We're in real trouble. Look what's happened just in the Midwest with these storms that come through and wipe out entire sections and counties in Iowa, they didn't happen before there because of global warming. We make up 15% of the world's problems. We, in fact, but the rest of the world, we've got to get them to come along. That's why we have to get back into back into the Paris Accord.
[81:34] Chris Wallace: All right, gentlemen. Wait a
[81:35] Donald Trump: minute, Chris. So why didn't he do it for 47 years? You were Vice president. Why didn't you get the world? China sends up riel dirt into the Russia. Does India does they all dio We're supposed to be good. And by the way, he made a couple of statements. Three green. New deal is $100 trillion. Not my plan. Well, you want to rebuild every built my plan to rebuild Everyone knew anything about him. He made a statement about the military. He said I said something about the military. He and his friends made it up, and then they went with it. I never said Okay, you got a He called the military a big bastards. I descended on tape. Hey, said stupid. Please stay. I would never play.
[82:18] Chris Wallace: Stop! Play it. Go ahead. Mr. Vice President answered his final question.
[82:24] Joe Biden: The final question is I can't remember which of
[82:26] Chris Wallace: all his rant a little trouble myself. But on about the economy and about this question of what is going to cost
[82:34] Joe Biden: the economy e in the
[82:36] Chris Wallace: green new deal and the idea of what your environmental China will does,
[82:40] Joe Biden: the green new deal will pay for itself. As we move forward, we're not gonna build plants that, in fact, our great polluting plan You're gonna build green New Deal. Pardon me? You support? No, I don't support the green
[82:52] Donald Trump: New deal. E support your e I. I support the
[82:59] Joe Biden: Biden plan that I put forward the Biden plan, which is different than what he calls the radical green New Deal.
[83:07] Chris Wallace: All right, gentlemen. Final segment. Election integrity. As we meet tonight, millions of Americans are receiving mail in ballots or going to vote early. How confident should we be that this will be a fair election? And what are you prepared to do over the next five plus weeks? Because it will not only be to Election Day, but also counting some ballots mail in ballots after election day. What do you prepared to do to reassure the American people that the next president will be the legitimate winner of this election in this final segment, Mr. Vice President, you go first
[83:45] Joe Biden: prepared to let people vote. If you go toe, I will vote dot com, decide how they're going to vote when they're going to vote and what means by which they're going to vote. His own Homeland Security director as well as the FBI director says there is no evidence at all that mail in ballots are a source of being manipulated and cheating. They said that the fact is that they're gonna be millions of people because of cove it that they're gonna be voting by mail in ballots like he does by the way he sits behind the Resolute desk and sends his ballot. The Florida number one number two. We're gonna make sure that those people who want to vote in person are able to vote because enough poll watchers air their toe, make sure they can socially distance. The polls are open on time and their polls stay open until the votes are counted. And this is all about trying to dissuade people from voting because he's trying Thio to scare people into thinking that it's not gonna be legitimate. Show up and vote. You will determine the outcome of this election. Vote, vote, vote If you're able to vote early in your state vote early, if you're able to vote in person, vote in person, vote whatever way is the best way for you, because you will. He cannot stop you from being able to determine the outcome of this election and in terms of whether or not when the votes were counted and they're all counted that will be accepted. If I win, that will be accepted. If I lose, I will be accepted. But by the way, if, in fact, he says he's not sure what he's gonna accept. Well, let me tell you some it doesn't matter, because if we get the votes, it's gonna be all over. He's gonna go. He can't stay in power. It won't happen. It won't happen. So vote. Just make sure you understand. You have it in your control to determine what this country is gonna look like the next four years. Is it going to changing it? Four more years of these lies, Mr President. Two
[85:35] Donald Trump: minutes. So when I listen to Joe talking about a transition, there's been no transition from when I won. I won that election. And if you look at crooked Hillary Clinton, if you look at all of the different people there was no transition because they came after me trying to do a coup. They came after me spying on my campaign. They started from the day I won, and even before I won from the day I came down the escalator with our first lady, they were a disaster. They were disgraced to our country and we've caught him. We've caught him all. We've got it all on tape. We've caught them all. And by the way, you gave the idea for the Logan Act against General Flynn. You better take a look at that because we caught you in a sense. And President Obama was sitting in the office. He knew about it too. So don't tell me about a free transition as faras. The ballots are concerned. It's a disaster. Eight solicited ballot. Okay. Solicited is okay. You're soliciting your asking. They send it back, you send it back. I did that. If you have an unsolicited, they're sending millions of ballots all over the country. There's fraud. They found him in creeks. They found some with the name Trump. Just happen to have the name Trump just the other day in a wastepaper basket. They're being sent all over the place they sent to in a Democrat area. They sent out 1000 ballots. Everybody got to balance. This is going to be a fraud. Like you've never seen the other thing. It's nice. On November 3rd, you're watching and you see who won the election. And I think we're going to do well because people are really happy with the job we've done. But you know what? We won't know. We might not know for months because thes ballots, they're gonna be all over. Take a look at what happened in Manhattan. Take a look at what happened in New Jersey. Take a look at what happened in Virginia and other places. They're not losing 2%. 1% which, by the way, is too much. An election could be won or lost. With that, they're losing 30 and 40%. It's a fraud, and it's a shame. And can you imagine where they say you have to have your ballot in by November 10th, November 10th? That means that's seven days after the election. In theory, should have been announced. We have major states with that. All run by Democrats is two minutes, all run by Democrats. President Trump's air rig.
[87:46] Chris Wallace: You're gonna be able to continue you have been charging for months, and mail in balloting is gonna be a disaster. You say it's rigged. I said it's gonna lead to fraud. But in 2018 in the last midterm election, 31 million people voted mail in voting. That was quarter more than a quarter of all the voters that year cast their ballots by mail. Now that million's of Malin ballots have gone out.
[88:13] Donald Trump: What are you
[88:13] Chris Wallace: going to do about it? And are you counting on the Supreme Court, including a Justice Barrett to settle any
[88:21] Donald Trump: decision? E think I'm counting in them to look at the ballots? Definitely. I don't think. Well, I hope we don't need them in terms of the election itself, but for the ballots? I think so. Because what's happening is incredible. I just heard. I read today. We're at least 1% of the ballots for 2016 were invalidated. They take them. We don't like them. We don't like him throwing
[88:42] Chris Wallace: out millions of ballots going.
[88:44] Donald Trump: What you do is you go and vote, you do a solicited ballot. That's okay. Where you going? I'm
[88:49] Chris Wallace: asking you about the fact that millions of people
[88:51] Donald Trump: you go vote you go and vote, but like they like they used to in the you either do Chris. A solicited ballot where you're sending it in, their sending it back and you're sending. They have mehlman with lots of it. Did you see what's going on? Take a look at West Virginia Mehlman selling the ballots. They're being sold. There being dumped in rivers. This is a horrible thing for our country. This is not No, This is not going to end well, okay, This is not going president.
[89:19] Chris Wallace: Five states back Helen ballots
[89:22] Joe Biden: for the last decade, arm or five, including two Republican states. And you don't have to solicit the ballot it sent to you. It sent to your home. What we're saying is they're saying is that it has to be a postmark by the time by Election day. If that doesn't get in till the 7th, 8th, 9th, it still should be counted. He's just afraid of counting the votes.
[89:45] Chris Wallace: Your E. I want to continue with you on the left, Vice President Biden
[89:50] Donald Trump: because he's so wrong when you make No
[89:52] Chris Wallace: Excuse me, Vice President Biden. The biggest problem, in fact, over the years with mail in voting has not been fraud. Historically, it has been that sizeable number. Sometimes hundreds of thousands of ballots were thrown out because they have not been properly filled out or there is some other irregularity or they missed the deadline. So the question I have is are you concerned that the Supreme Court with the Justice Barrett will settle any dispute.
[90:18] Joe Biden: I'm concerned that any court would settle this because here's the deal. When you when you file when you get a ballot and you fill it out, you're supposed to have an affidavit. If you didn't know, you have someone say that this is may you should be able to If in fact you can verify that you when the before the ballot is thrown out, that's sufficient to be able to count the ballots because someone made a mistake and not dotting the correct I who they voted for testify, say who they voted for. Say, it's you that is totally legitimate. Alright,
[90:52] Donald Trump: excuse me. When you have a $5 million and a Senate and swamping system, you know it can't be done, you know it can't. And already, all right, so now you're
[91:03] Chris Wallace: a gentleman and find a way. Keep talking. In eight states, election workers are prohibited currently by law, eight states from even beginning to process ballots, even take them out of the envelopes and flatten um, until Election Day. That means that it's likely because there's gonna be a huge increase in male and validating that we are not going to know on election night. Who? The winner is that? It could be days. It could be weeks until we find out who the new president is. So I first for you, sir. Finally, for the for the vice president. I hope neither of you will interrupt the other. Will you urge your supporters to stay calm during this extended period, not to engage in any civil unrest? And will you pledge tonight that you will not declare victory until the election has been independently certified? President Trump
[91:59] Donald Trump: reaching my supporters to go into the polls and watch very carefully because that's what has to happen. I am urging them to do it. As you know today. There was a big problem in Philadelphia. They went in tow watch. They were called poll watchers. A very safe, very nice thing. They were thrown out. They weren't allowed to watch. You know why? Because bad things happen in Philadelphia. Bad things. And I am urging. I am urging my people. I hope it's gonna be a fair election if it's a fair election. I am, ah, 100% on board. But if I see tens of thousands of ballots being manipulated, I can't go along with that. And I'll tell you what from a common sense. Tell you what, people. It means you have a fraudulent election. You're sending out 80 million ballots. They're not. They're not equipped. These people aren't equipped to handle it. Number one, number two, they cheat, They cheat. Hey, they found ballots in a wastepaper basket three days ago and they all had the name, military balance. There were military. They all had the name Trump on them. Vice further. Think that's good.
[93:01] Chris Wallace: Vice President Biden. Final question for you. Will you urge your supporters to stay calm while the vote is counted? And will you pledge not to declare victory until the election is independently certified?
[93:12] Joe Biden: Yes, And here's the deal, the account, the balance. As you pointed out, some of these ballots in some states can't even be opened until Election Day. And if there's thousands of ballots going to take time to do it, and by the way, our military, they've been voting by ballots first sense that at the end of the Civil War in effect and that's and that's what's happened gonna happen, Why was it not? Why is it for them somehow not fraudulent. It's the same process. It's honest. No one has established at all that there is fraud related to mail in ballots that they're Somehow it's a fraudulent process.
[93:49] Donald Trump: It's already been established. Take a look at Carolyn Maloney.
[93:52] Chris Wallace: You had an opportunity.
[93:54] Donald Trump: But you know, they have no idea what
[93:57] Chris Wallace: President Biden go ahead.
[93:58] Joe Biden: He has no idea what he's talking about. Here's the deal. The fact is, I will accept it and he will, too. You know why? Because once the winner is declared, after all the all the ballots are counted, all the votes are counted. That'll be the end of it. That'll be the end of it. And if it's me, in fact, fine. If it was not me, I'll support the outcome. And I'll be a president, not just for the Democrats. I'll be a president for Democrats and Republicans and this guy
[94:24] Donald Trump: I want to say, Gentlemen, you
[94:27] Chris Wallace: say That's the end of it. This is the end of this debate. We're gonna leave it there, uh, to be continued, as in mawr debates as we go on, uh, President Trump, Vice President Biden has been an interesting hour and a half I want to thank you both for participating in the first of three debates that you have agreed to engage in. We wanna thank Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic for hosting this event. The next debate, sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates, will be one week from tomorrow, October 7th at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City. The two vice presidential nominees, Vice President Mike Pence and Senator Kamala Harris will debate at 9 p.m. eastern that night. We hope you watch until then. Thank you and good night.
[95:17] Joe Biden: Thank you. Quick. Okay. Yeah.
